README.md, before:

# Derrick's Dynamite (.)Dotfiles

## Assumptions

I have tried to make this as generic as possible, so that anyone who uses it doesn't have to go through the code and make a whole bunch of changes so that it works for his/her local environment. However, that comes with a few assumptions about directory structure and what not. Below are a list of items that must be the same in order for all aliases/function/settings to work correctly. If you don't set your environment up the same, nothing will *break*, you just may have a few things that crap out on you.

* Development Directory: I keep all of my projects in a 'Development' directory, within my home folder. There are a few aliases that refer to this directory. (`mkdir ~/Development`).

## Dependencies

A few of the included functions have dependencies. You don't need to install, but then you won't be able to use the dependent function.

* gifify (create animated gifs from a video file)
  * ffmpeg (can be installed easily with [brew](http://brew.sh/))
  * gifsicle (can be installed easily with [brew](http://brew.sh/))

## TODO
* Document functions

Commit message:

adding blurb about extras, intro para

README.md, after:

# Derrick's Dynamite (.)Dotfiles

This is meant to be super simple. I may add more functions and shortcuts over time, but I would also like everything to be documented. If you're a bit new to the command line, this should be pretty simple to download and use.

## Setup

Fork or clone the repo:  
`git clone https://github.com/derrickshowers/derricks-dynamite-dotfiles.git`

Copy the necessary files to your home directory  
`cp .bashrc .bash_profile ~/`


## Assumptions

I have tried to make this as generic as possible, so that anyone who uses it doesn't have to go through the code and make a whole bunch of changes so that it works for his/her local environment. However, that comes with a few assumptions about directory structure and what not. Below are a list of items that must be the same in order for all aliases/function/settings to work correctly. If you don't set your environment up the same, nothing will *break*, you just may have a few things that crap out on you.

* **Development Directory**: I keep all of my projects in a 'Development' directory, within my home folder. There are a few aliases that refer to this directory (`mkdir ~/Development`).


## Dependencies

A few of the included functions have dependencies. You don't need to install, but then you won't be able to use the dependent function.

* gifify (create animated gifs from a video file)
  * ffmpeg (can be installed easily with [brew](http://brew.sh/))
  * gifsicle (can be installed easily with [brew](http://brew.sh/))


## Extras

Do you have aliases that are specific to certain machines? For instance, maybe some aliases that you only use on your work machine. Create a new file, call it '.extras', place it in your home directory, and it will automatically be included.
